6.0 English
From BBCLearningEnglish.com
Hello, this is 6-minute English from BBCLearningEnglish. I'm Phil
And I'm Georgie. For most parents, their babies first word is a special moment. This happens after an early stage of language development called Babel.
When babies start making simple sounds like Gah or Ma.
Babies have to learn to use their mouth muscles to make specific sounds. They experiment with different sounds and mouth shapes.
So what exactly is happening when babies start learning to speak? What do you think, Georgie?
Well, Phil, I'm no expert, but I imagine they watch the adults around them and kind of copy and imitate what they do, what do you think?
I definitely think that's what my children did when they were learning to speak.
Let's compare our ideas with those of an expert.
Professor Julian Pine from Liverpool University, speaking here on BBC Radio 4,
and he lists the skills that Babies develop in order to speak.
Well, one of the first things the child's got to do is they've got to break down the speech stream into words.
Then they've got to link the words to the things that they refer to in the environment, so they've got to learn what the word mean.
Right.
In this program, we'll discover how Babies learn to speak, and as usual, we'll learn some useful new vocabulary.
And on the subject of words, remember you can find a list of this program's vocabulary on our website, BBCLearningEnglish.com.
Some people find it helpful to study the vocabulary before listening.
And another thing to do before listening is ask my question, Georgie, we've mentioned the babbling noises that Babies make when learning to speak,
but what age does this usually start? Is it a, around six months old?
B, around nine months old, or C, around one year old?
Okay, I think my best guess would be a, around six months old.
Okay, well, we'll find out a little bit later on in the program.
Let's return to Professor Pines' list.
The first thing Babies do is recognize where individual words start and end.
For this, it helps to know that in English, at least words often begin with a stressed syllable.
The sound in a word which is emphasized by being spoken longer or louder.
Learning this takes time and here, Professor Pines and Michael Rosen, presenter of BBC Radio Falls program, Word of mouth,
discuss children who haven't quite discovered it yet.
And we can see this in the kind of errors that children make, because little kids will often call the giraffe a wrath,
but leaving off the unstressed syllable because that's not typical English.
Oh, and I've got an example of this. My sound used to call a machine a sming.
It just hit the stress. You didn't bother with the muppet.
Yeah, exactly.
Well, you may have thought it was my sming, of course. That's the other thing.
And the classic example, of course, is Narnar instead of banana.
Yes, I think I call them that.
One error or mistake, infants make is calling a giraffe a wrath, because they cut off the first syllable G, because it's not stressed.
The classic example of this is when children say, Narnar instead of banana, a classic example of something means the best example of it.
One containing all the features you expect such a thing to have.
For example, ants are a classic example of animals working together.
The second skill babies develop as they learn to speak is correctly linking a word to the object it refers to.
In other words, knowing what the word means.
As adults, we do this without thinking, but it's actually much harder than it sounds, as Professor Julian Pine explains to BBC Radio for program, Word of mouth.
Well, we take for granted the fact that it's kind of obvious what word refers to in the environment, but actually if you look at it from the child's point of view, it's really difficult to work out what a word refers to, because there's so many things it could refer to.
So, you know, the speech, signal is very ambiguous.
How does the child know that you're talking about the cup infant or the pen infant view when you say fan or cup?
As adults, we take it for granted that when a friend says apple, they mean that round red thing on the table.
To take it for granted, means to assume something without question.
But for a baby, the link between the word apple and the object is not obvious, it's ambiguous, meaning it has more than one possible meaning.
Wow, who knew so much was going on inside babies sponge like brains as they soak up the sounds they hear.
Right, Phil, isn't it time to reveal the answer to your question?
It is indeed. The question was, at what age do babies start to make babbling noises?
And I said it was around six months.
And that is the correct answer.
Yay!
Baby start to do this when they're about six months old.
Okay, let's recap the vocabulary that we've learnt starting with Babel, the meaningless noises babies make as they're learning to speak.
The stress syllable in a word is the sound which is emphasized by being longer, louder or higher.
An error is a mistake.
The classic example of something is the most typical example of it, containing its most important features.
If you take something for granted, you accept or assume it without question.
And finally, the adjective ambiguous means having more than one possible meaning.
Once again, our six minutes are up.
But if you're ready for more, you'll find the worksheet with a quiz and a transcript for this program on our website.
See you there soon.
Bye!
Thank you!